Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect JPMorgan Chase’s financial condition and operations. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the Firm. Any of the risk factors discussed below could by itself, or combined with other factors, materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of operations, financial condition, capital position, liquidity, competitive position or reputation, including by materially increasing expenses or decreasing revenues, which could result in material losses or a decrease in earnings. Regulatory JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are highly regulated, and the laws and regulations that apply to JPMorgan Chase have a significant impact on its business and operations. JPMorgan Chase is a financial services firm with operations worldwide. JPMorgan Chase must comply with the laws, rules and regulations that apply to its operations in all of the jurisdictions around the world in which it does business. Regulation of financial services is extensive. JPMorgan Chase has experienced an extended period of significant change in laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry, both within and outside the U.S. The supervision of financial services firms also expanded significantly. The increased regulation and supervision of JPMorgan Chase has affected the way that it conducts its business and structures its operations. Existing and new laws and regulations and expanded supervision could require JPMorgan Chase to make further changes to its business and operations. These changes could result in JPMorgan Chase incurring additional costs for complying with laws and regulations and could reduce its profitability. For example, existing and new laws and regulations have in the past and could in the future require JPMorgan Chase to: • limit the products and services that it offers • reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-making activities • stop or discourage it from engaging in business opportunities that it might otherwise pursue • recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds • pay higher taxes, assessments, levies or other governmental charges, including in connection with the resolution of tax examinations • dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that are disadvantageous • impose restrictions on certain business activities, or • increase the prices that it charges for products and services, which could reduce the demand for them. Differences in financial services regulation can be disadvantageous for JPMorgan Chase’s business. The content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, and other criteria. For example: • larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision and regulation • financial technology companies and other non-traditional competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not have the same resources or regulatory priorities as the regulatory agencies which supervise more diversified financial services firms, or • the financial services regulatory framework in a particular jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based in that jurisdiction. These differences in the regulatory framework can result in a firm such as JPMorgan Chase losing market share to competitors that are less regulated or not subject to regulation, especially with respect to unregulated financial products. There can also be significant differences in the ways that similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are implemented in the U.S. and in other countries 6 and regions in which JPMorgan Chase does business. For example, when adopting rules that are intended to implement a global regulatory initiative or standard, a national regulator may introduce additional or more restrictive requirements, which can create competitive disadvantages for financial services firms, such as JPMorgan Chase, that may be subject to those enhanced regulations. Legislative and regulatory initiatives outside the U.S. could require JPMorgan Chase to make significant modifications to its operations and legal entity structure in the relevant countries or regions in order to comply with those requirements. These include laws and regulations that have been adopted or proposed relating to: • the resolution of financial institutions • the establishment of locally-based intermediate holding companies or operating subsidiaries • requirements to maintain minimum amounts of capital or liquidity in locally-based subsidiaries • the separation (or “ring fencing”) of core banking products and services from markets activities • requirements for executing or settling transactions on exchanges or through central counterparties (“CCPs”) • position limits and reporting rules for derivatives • governance and accountability regimes • conduct of business requirements, and • restrictions on compensation. These types of differences in financial services regulation, or inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations between different jurisdictions, could require JPMorgan Chase to: • divest assets or restructure its operations • absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs • change the prices that it charges for its products and services • curtail the products and services that it offers to its customers and clients, or • incur higher costs for complying with different legal and regulatory frameworks. Any or all of these factors could harm JPMorgan Chase’s ability to compete against other firms that are not subject to the same laws and regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm JPMorgan Chase’s businesses, results of operations and profitability. Heightened regulatory scrutiny of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses has increased its compliance costs and could result in restrictions on its operations. JPMorgan Chase’s operations are subject to heightened oversight and scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions where JPMorgan Chase does business. JPMorgan Chase has paid significant fines, provided other monetary relief, incurred other penalties and experienced other repercussions in connection with resolving several investigations and enforcement actions by governmental agencies. JPMorgan Chase could become subject to similar regulatory resolutions or other actions in the future, and addressing the requirements of any such resolutions or actions could result in JPMorgan Chase incurring higher operational and compliance costs or needing to comply with other restrictions. In connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, certain regulators have required JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions to admit wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the resolution. These types of admissions can lead to: • greater exposure in civil litigation • damage to reputation • disqualification from doing business with certain clients or customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or • other direct and indirect adverse effects. Furthermore, U.S. government officials have demonstrated a willingness to bring criminal actions against financial institutions and have demanded that institutions plead guilty to criminal offenses or admit other wrongdoing in connection with resolving regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. Resolutions of this type can have significant collateral consequences for the subject financial institution, including: • loss of clients, customers and business • restrictions on offering certain products or services, and • losing permission to operate certain businesses, either temporarily or permanently. JPMorgan Chase expects that it and other financial services firms will continue to be subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. JPMorgan Chase also expects that regulators will continue to insist that financial institutions be penalized for actual or deemed violations of law with formal and punitive enforcement actions, including the imposition of significant monetary and other sanctions, rather than resolving these matters through informal supervisory actions. Furthermore, if JPMorgan Chase fails to meet the requirements of any resolution of a governmental investigation or enforcement action, or to maintain risk and control processes that meet 7 Part I the heightened standards established by its regulators, it could be required to: • enter into further resolutions of investigations or enforcement actions • pay additional regulatory fines, penalties or judgments, or • accept material regulatory restrictions on, or changes in the management of, its businesses. In these circumstances, JPMorgan Chase could also become subject to other sanctions, or to prosecution or civil litigation with respect to the conduct that gave rise to an investigation or enforcement action. Complying with economic sanctions and anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational and compliance costs and risks. JPMorgan Chase must comply with economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and similar national and multi-national bodies and governmental agencies outside the U.S., as well as anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws and regulations throughout the world. JPMorgan Chase can incur higher costs and face greater compliance risks in structuring and operating its businesses to comply with these requirements. Furthermore, a violation of a sanction or embargo program or anti-corruption or anti-money laundering laws and regulations could subject JPMorgan Chase, and individual employees, to regulatory enforcement actions as well as significant civil and criminal penalties. JPMorgan Chase’s operations can be constrained in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory frameworks. If the legal and regulatory system in a particular country is less predictable, this can create a more difficult environment in which to conduct business. For example, any of the following could hamper JPMorgan Chase’s operations and reduce its earnings in these types of countries: • the absence of a statutory or regulatory basis or guidance for engaging in specific types of business or transactions • conflicting or ambiguous laws and regulations, or the inconsistent application or interpretation of existing laws and regulations • uncertainty concerning the enforceability of contractual, intellectual property or other obligations • difficulty in competing in economies in which the government controls or protects all or a portion of the local economy or specific businesses, or where graft or corruption may be pervasive, and • the threat of arbitrary regulatory investigations, civil litigations or criminal prosecutions, the termination of licenses required to operate in the local market or the suspension of business relationships with governmental bodies. Conducting business in countries with less predictable legal and regulatory regimes could require JPMorgan Chase to devote significant additional resources to understanding, and monitoring changes in, local laws and regulations, as well as structuring its operations to comply with local laws and regulations and implementing and administering related internal policies and procedures. There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase will always be successful in its efforts to fully understand and to conduct its business in compliance with the laws and regulations of all of the jurisdictions in which it operates, and the risk of non-compliance can be greater in countries that have less predictable legal and regulatory systems. Requirements for the orderly resolution of JPMorgan Chase could result in JPMorgan Chase having to restructure or reorganize its businesses. JPMorgan Chase is required under Federal Reserve and FDIC rules to prepare and submit periodically to those agencies a detailed plan for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy, without extraordinary government support, in the event of material financial distress or failure. The agencies’ evaluation of JPMorgan Chase’s resolution plan may change, and the requirements for resolution plans may be modified from time to time. Any such determinations or modifications could result in JPMorgan Chase needing to make changes to its legal entity structure or to certain internal or external activities, which could increase its funding or operational costs, or hamper its ability to serve clients and customers. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to determine that a resolution plan submitted by JPMorgan Chase has deficiencies, they could jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on JPMorgan Chase’s growth, activities or operations. After two years, if the deficiencies are not cured, the agencies could also require that JPMorgan Chase restructure, reorganize or divest assets or businesses in ways that could materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations and strategy. Holders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s debt and equity securities will absorb losses if it were to enter into a resolution. Federal Reserve rules require that JPMorgan Chase & Co. (the “Parent Company”) maintain minimum levels of unsecured external long-term debt and other loss-absorbing capacity with specific terms (“eligible LTD”) for purposes of recapitalizing JPMorgan Chase’s operating subsidiaries if the Parent Company were to enter into a resolution either: • in a bankruptcy proceeding under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or • in a receivership administered by the FDIC under Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (“Title II”). 8 If the Parent Company were to enter into a resolution, holders of eligible LTD and other debt and equity securities of the Parent Company will absorb the losses of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. The preferred “single point of entry” strategy under JPMorgan Chase’s resolution plan contemplates that only the Parent Company would enter bankruptcy proceedings. JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries would be recapitalized, as needed, so that they could continue normal operations or subsequently be divested or wound down in an orderly manner. As a result, the Parent Company’s losses and any losses incurred by its subsidiaries would be imposed first on holders of the Parent Company’s equity securities and thereafter on its unsecured creditors, including holders of eligible LTD and other debt securities. Claims of holders of those securities would have a junior position to the claims of creditors of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries and to the claims of priority (as determined by statute) and secured creditors of the Parent Company. Accordingly, in a resolution of the Parent Company in bankruptcy, holders of eligible LTD and other debt securities of the Parent Company would realize value only to the extent available to the Parent Company as a shareholder of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its other subsidiaries, and only after any claims of priority and secured creditors of the Parent Company have been fully repaid. The FDIC has similarly indicated that a single point of entry recapitalization model could be a desirable strategy to resolve a systemically important financial institution, such as the Parent Company, under Title II. However, the FDIC has not formally adopted a single point of entry resolution strategy. If the Parent Company were to approach, or enter into, a resolution, none of the Parent Company, the Federal Reserve or the FDIC is obligated to follow JPMorgan Chase’s preferred strategy, and losses to holders of eligible LTD and other debt and equity securities of the Parent Company, under whatever strategy is ultimately followed, could be greater than they might have been under JPMorgan Chase’s preferred strategy. Political The departure of the U.K. from the EU could negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, results of operations and operating model. It remains highly uncertain how the departure of the U.K. from the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit,” will affect financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase that conduct substantial operations in the EU from legal entities that are organized in or operating from the U.K. It is possible that the transition period following the U.K.’s departure from the EU on January 31, 2020 will expire on December 31, 2020 without any agreement having been reached between the U.K. and the EU concerning whether or to what extent U.K.-based firms may conduct financial services activities within the EU. It is also possible that any agreement reached between the U.K. and the EU may, depending on the final outcome of the ongoing negotiations and related legislative developments: • impede the ability of U.K.-based financial services firms to conduct business in the EU • fail to address significant unresolved issues relating to the cross-border conduct of financial services activities, or • apply only temporarily. JPMorgan Chase has been making appropriate modifications to its legal entity structure and operations in the EU, the locations in which it operates and the staffing in those locations to address the departure of the U.K. from the EU. If the U.K. and the EU fail to reach an agreement on their future relationship before the end of the transition period or if any other outcome persists that does not assure ongoing access for U.K.-based financial services firms to the EU market, the types of structural and operational changes that JPMorgan Chase is in the process of making to its European operations may result in JPMorgan Chase having to sustain a more fragmented operating model across its U.K., EU and other operating entities. Due to considerations such as operating expenses, liquidity, leverage and capital, the modified European operating framework will be more complex, less efficient and more costly than would otherwise have been the case. A disorderly withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU, or unexpected consequences of the withdrawal, could have significant and immediate destabilizing effects on economic and market conditions in the region and globally. In particular, cross-border financial services activities could be severely disrupted depending on circumstances that may exist following the withdrawal, including: • the possibility that financial institutions, their clients and counterparties, and other market participants may not be positioned to continue to do business through EU-based legal entities • reduction or fragmentation of market liquidity that may be caused if significant market participants (including trading venues and CCPs) that are currently based in the U.K. have not completed arrangements to conduct operations from the EU either in the near term or, if authorized to continue to operate from the U.K. on a transitional basis, after any transitional or temporary relief has expired • uncertainties concerning the application and interpretation of laws and regulations relating to cross-border financial services activities • inability to engage in certain financial services activities through EU-based legal entities to the extent that licenses or temporary permission to engage in such activities have not been granted timely by local regulators 9 Part I • unexpected or unfavorable changes in laws and regulations, governmental policies or public sentiment, and • losses due to process errors or incorrect judgments concerning economic, political or regulatory developments. Any or all of the above factors could have an adverse effect on the overall operation of the European financial services market as well as JPMorgan Chase’s business, operations and earnings in the U.K., the EU and globally. Economic uncertainty or instability caused by political developments can hurt JPMorgan Chase’s businesses. The economic environment and market conditions in which JPMorgan Chase operates continue to be uncertain due to political developments in the U.S. and other countries. Certain monetary, fiscal and other policy initiatives and proposals could cause a contraction in U.S. and global economic growth and higher volatility in the financial markets, including: • monetary and fiscal policies and actions taken by the Federal Reserve and other central banks or governmental authorities, including any suspension or reversal of large-scale asset purchases • inability to reach political consensus to keep the U.S. government open • isolationist foreign policies • the implementation of tariffs and other protectionist trade policies • political pressure on monetary policy decisions of central banks, or • the possible withdrawal or reduction of government support for the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (together, the “U.S. GSEs”). These types of political developments, and uncertainty about the possible outcomes of these developments, could: • erode investor confidence in the U.S. economy and financial markets, which could potentially undermine the status of the U.S. dollar as a safe haven currency • provoke retaliatory countermeasures by other countries and otherwise heighten tensions in diplomatic relations • increase concerns about whether the U.S. government will be funded, and its outstanding debt serviced, at any particular time, and • result in periodic shutdowns of the U.S. government or governments in other countries. These factors could lead to: • slower growth rates, rising inflation or recession • greater market volatility • a contraction of available credit and the widening of credit spreads • diminished investor and consumer confidence • lower investment growth • large-scale sales of government debt and other debt and equity securities in the U.S. and other countries • reduced commercial activity among trading partners • the potential for a currency redenomination by a particular country • the possible departure of a country from, or the dissolution of, a political or economic alliance or treaty • potential expropriation or nationalization of assets • other market dislocations, including the spread of unfavorable economic conditions from a particular country or region to other countries or regions. Any of these potential outcomes could cause JPMorgan Chase to suffer losses on its market-making positions or in its investment portfolio, reduce its liquidity and capital levels, hamper its ability to deliver products and services to its clients and customers, and weaken its results of operations and financial condition. Market Economic and market events and conditions can materially affect JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and investment and market-making positions. JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations can be negatively affected by adverse changes in any of the following: • investor, consumer and business sentiment • events that reduce confidence in the financial markets • inflation or deflation • high unemployment or, conversely, a tightening labor market • the availability and cost of capital, liquidity and credit • levels and volatility of interest rates (including overnight repo rates), credit spreads and market prices for currencies, equities and commodities, and the duration of any changes in levels or volatility • the economic effects of outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities, cyberattacks, climate change, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, health emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or pandemics, and • the health of the U.S. and global economies. All of these are affected by global economic, market and political events and conditions, as well as regulatory restrictions. 10 In addition, JPMorgan Chase’s investment portfolio and market-making businesses can suffer losses due to unanticipated market events, including: • severe declines in asset values • unexpected credit events • unforeseen events or conditions that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) • the inability to effectively hedge market and other risks related to market-making position, or • other market risks that may not have been appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a financial instrument. If JPMorgan Chase experiences significant losses in its investment portfolio or from market-making activities, this could reduce JPMorgan Chase’s profitability and its liquidity and capital levels, and thereby constrain the growth of its businesses. JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses can be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses are particularly affected by U.S. and global economic conditions, including: • interest rates • the rates of inflation and unemployment • housing prices • the level of consumer and small business confidence • changes in consumer spending or in the level of consumer debt, and • the number of personal bankruptcies. A rapid increase in interest rates could negatively affect consumer credit performance to the extent that consumers are less able to service their debts. Sustained low growth, low or negative interest rates, inflationary pressures or recessionary conditions could diminish customer demand for the products and services offered by JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses. These conditions could also increase the cost to provide those products and services. Adverse economic conditions could also lead to an increase in delinquencies and higher net charge-offs, which can reduce JPMorgan Chase’s earnings. These consequences could be significantly worse in certain geographies where high levels of unemployment have resulted from declining industrial or manufacturing activity, or where high levels of consumer debt, such as outstanding student loans, impair the ability of customers to pay their other consumer loan obligations. JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its consumer businesses could also be adversely affected by governmental policies and actions that affect consumers, including: • policies and initiatives relating to medical insurance, education, immigration and employment status • the inability to reach political consensus to keep the U.S. government open and funded, and • policies aimed at the economy more broadly, such as infrastructure spending and global trade, which could result in higher inflation or reductions in consumer disposable income. In addition, governmental proposals to permit student loan obligations to be discharged in bankruptcy proceedings could, if enacted into law, encourage certain of JPMorgan Chase’s customers to declare personal bankruptcy and thereby trigger defaults and charge-offs of credit card and other consumer loans extended to those customers. Unfavorable market and economic conditions can have an adverse effect on JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses. In JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale businesses, market and economic factors can affect the volume of transactions that JPMorgan Chase executes for its clients or for which it advises clients, and, therefore, the revenue that JPMorgan Chase receives from those transactions. These factors can also influence the willingness of other financial institutions and investors to participate in capital markets transactions that JPMorgan Chase manages, such as loan syndications or securities underwritings. Furthermore, if a significant and sustained deterioration in market conditions were to occur, the profitability of JPMorgan Chase’s capital markets businesses, including its loan syndication, securities underwriting and leveraged lending activities, could be reduced to the extent that those businesses: • earn less fee revenue due to lower transaction volumes, including when clients are unwilling or unable to refinance their outstanding debt obligations in unfavorable market conditions, or • dispose of portions of credit commitments at a loss, or hold larger residual positions in credit commitments that cannot be sold at favorable prices. An adverse change in market conditions in particular segments of the economy, such as a sudden and severe downturn in oil and gas prices or an increase in commodity prices, could have a material adverse effect on clients of JPMorgan Chase whose operations or financial condition are directly or indirectly dependent on the health or stability of those market segments, as well as clients that are engaged in related businesses. JPMorgan Chase could incur losses on its loans and other credit commitments to clients that operate in, or are dependent on, any sector of the economy that is under stress. The fees that JPMorgan Chase earns from managing client assets or holding assets under custody for clients could be diminished by declining asset values or other adverse macroeconomic conditions. For example, higher interest rates or a downturn in financial markets could affect the valuations of client assets that JPMorgan Chase manages or holds under custody, which, in turn, could affect JPMorgan Chase’s revenue from fees that are based on the amount of assets under management or custody. Similarly, adverse 11 Part I macroeconomic or market conditions could prompt outflows from JPMorgan Chase funds or accounts, or cause clients to invest in products that generate lower revenue. Substantial and unexpected withdrawals from a JPMorgan Chase fund can also hamper the investment performance of the fund, particularly if the outflows create the need for the fund to dispose of fund assets at disadvantageous times or prices, and could lead to further withdrawals based on the weaker investment performance. An economic downturn that results in lower consumer and business spending could also have a negative impact on certain of JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale clients, and thereby diminish JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its wholesale operations. For example, the businesses of certain of JPMorgan Chase’s wholesale clients are dependent on consistent streams of rental income from commercial real estate properties which are owned or being built by those clients. Severe and sustained adverse economic conditions could reduce the rental cash flows that owners or developers receive from those properties which, in turn, could depress the values of the properties and impair the ability of borrowers to service or refinance their commercial real estate loans. These consequences could result in JPMorgan Chase experiencing higher delinquencies, defaults and write-offs within its commercial real estate loan portfolio and incurring higher costs for servicing a larger volume of delinquent loans in that portfolio, thereby reducing JPMorgan Chase’s earnings from its wholesale businesses. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads can adversely affect certain of JPMorgan Chase’s revenue and income streams. JPMorgan Chase can generally be expected to earn higher net interest income when interest rates are increasing. However, higher interest rates can also lead to: • fewer originations of commercial and residential real estate loans • losses on underwriting exposures • the loss of deposits, including in the event that JPMorgan Chase makes incorrect assumptions about depositor behavior • lower net interest income if central banks introduce interest rate increases more quickly than anticipated and this results in a misalignment in the pricing of short-term and long-term borrowings • less liquidity in the financial markets, and • higher funding costs. All of these outcomes could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s revenues and its liquidity and capital levels. Higher interest rates can also negatively affect the payment performance on loans within JPMorgan Chase’s consumer and wholesale loan portfolios that are linked to variable interest rates. If borrowers of variable rate loans are unable to afford higher interest payments, those borrowers may reduce or stop making payments, thereby causing JPMorgan Chase to incur losses and increased operational costs related to servicing a higher volume of delinquent loans. On the other hand, a low or negative interest rate environment may cause: • net interest margins to be compressed, which could reduce the amounts that JPMorgan Chase earns on its investment portfolio to the extent that it is unable to reinvest contemporaneously in higher-yielding instruments • unanticipated or adverse changes in depositor behavior, which could negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s broader asset and liability management strategy, and • a reduction in the value of JPMorgan Chase’s mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”) asset, thereby decreasing revenues. When credit spreads widen, it becomes more expensive for JPMorgan Chase to borrow. JPMorgan Chase’s credit spreads may widen or narrow not only in response to events and circumstances that are specific to JPMorgan Chase but also as a result of general economic and geopolitical events and conditions. Changes in JPMorgan Chase’s credit spreads will affect, positively or negatively, JPMorgan Chase’s earnings on certain liabilities, such as derivatives, that are recorded at fair value. JPMorgan Chase’s results may be materially affected by market fluctuations and significant changes in the value of financial instruments. The value of securities, derivatives and other financial instruments which JPMorgan Chase owns or in which it makes markets can be materially affected by market fluctuations. Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and other disruptions in the financial markets may make it extremely difficult to value certain financial instruments, particularly during periods of market displacement. Subsequent valuations of financial instruments in future periods, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the value of these instruments. In addition, at the time of any disposition of these financial instruments, the price that JPMorgan Chase ultimately realizes will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of JPMorgan Chase’s financial instruments which may have an adverse effect on JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations. JPMorgan Chase’s risk management and monitoring processes, including its stress testing framework, seek to quantify and control JPMorgan Chase’s exposure to more extreme market moves. However, JPMorgan Chase could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur. Under extreme market conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at 12 mitigating losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Credit JPMorgan Chase can be adversely affected by the financial condition of clients, counterparties, custodians and CCPs. JPMorgan Chase routinely executes transactions with brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, investment managers and other types of financial institutions and market participants. Many of these transactions expose JPMorgan Chase to the credit risk of its clients and counterparties, and can involve JPMorgan Chase in disputes and litigation if a client or counterparty defaults. JPMorgan Chase can also be subject to losses or liability where a financial institution that it has appointed to provide custodial services for client assets or funds becomes insolvent as a result of fraud or the failure to abide by existing laws and obligations, including under the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive. A default by, or the financial or operational failure of, a CCP through which JPMorgan Chase executes contracts would require JPMorgan Chase to replace those contracts, thereby increasing its operational costs and potentially resulting in losses. JPMorgan Chase can also be exposed to losses if a member of a CCP in which JPMorgan Chase is also a member defaults on its obligations to the CCP because of requirements that each member of the CCP absorb a portion of those losses. As part of its clearing services activities, JPMorgan Chase is also exposed to the risk of nonperformance by its clients, which it seeks to mitigate by requiring clients to provide adequate collateral. JPMorgan Chase is also exposed to intra-day credit risk of its clients in connection with providing cash management, clearing, custodial and other transaction services to those clients. If a client for which JPMorgan Chase provides these services becomes bankrupt or insolvent, JPMorgan Chase may incur losses, become involved in disputes and litigation with one or more CCPs, the client’s bankruptcy estate and other creditors, or be subject to regulatory investigations. All of the foregoing events can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational and litigation costs, and JPMorgan Chase may suffer losses to the extent that any collateral that it has received is insufficient to cover those losses. JPMorgan Chase can also be subject to bearing its share of non-default losses incurred by a CCP, including losses from custodial, settlement or investment activities or due to cyber or other security breaches. Disputes may arise with counterparties to derivatives contracts with regard to the terms, the settlement procedures or the value of underlying collateral. The disposition of those disputes could cause JPMorgan Chase to incur unexpected transaction, operational and legal costs, or result in credit losses. These consequences can also impair JPMorgan Chase’s ability to effectively manage its credit risk exposure from its market activities, or cause harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. The financial or operational failure of a significant market participant, such as a major financial institution or a CCP, or concerns about the creditworthiness of such a market participant, can have a cascading effect within the financial markets. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses could be significantly disrupted by such an event, particularly if it leads to other market participants incurring significant losses, experiencing liquidity issues or defaulting. JPMorgan Chase is likely to have significant interrelationships with, and credit exposure to, such a significant market participant, and would seek to unwind or hedge positions in securities, derivatives and other obligations in multiple jurisdictions during a period of heightened market volatility. JPMorgan Chase may suffer losses if the value of collateral declines in stressed market conditions. During periods of market stress or illiquidity, JPMorgan Chase’s credit risk may be further increased when JPMorgan Chase cannot realize the fair value of the collateral held by it or when collateral is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan, derivative or other exposure due to it. Furthermore, disputes with counterparties concerning the valuation of collateral may increase in times of significant market stress, volatility or illiquidity, and JPMorgan Chase could suffer losses during these periods if it is unable to realize the fair value of collateral or to manage declines in the value of collateral. JPMorgan Chase could incur significant losses arising from concentrations of credit and market risk. JPMorgan Chase is exposed to greater credit and market risk to the extent that groupings of its clients or counterparties: • engage in similar or related businesses, or in businesses in related industries • do business in the same geographic region, or • have business profiles, models or strategies that could cause their ability to meet their obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions. For example, a significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers or counterparties could lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of other borrowers or counterparties in similar, related or dependent industries. This type of interrelationship could exacerbate JPMorgan Chase’s credit, liquidity and market risk exposure and potentially cause it to incur losses, including fair value losses in its market-making businesses. Similarly, challenging economic conditions that affect a particular industry or geographic area could lead to concerns about the credit quality of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers or counterparties not only in that particular industry or geography but in related or dependent industries, wherever located. These conditions could also heighten concerns about the ability of customers of JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses who live in those areas or work in those affected industries or related or 13 Part I dependent industries to meet their obligations to JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit and market risk exposures to assess the potential risks of concentration or contagion, but its efforts to diversify or hedge its exposures against those risks may not be successful. JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses can also be harmed by an excessive expansion of consumer credit by bank or non-bank competitors. Heightened competition for certain types of consumer loans could prompt industry-wide reactions such as significant reductions in the pricing or margins of those loans or the making of loans to less-creditworthy borrowers. If large numbers of consumers subsequently default on their loans, whether due to weak credit profiles, an economic downturn or other factors, this could impair their ability to repay obligations owed to JPMorgan Chase and result in higher charge-offs and other credit-related losses. More broadly, widespread defaults on consumer debt could lead to recessionary conditions in the U.S. economy, and JPMorgan Chase’s consumer businesses may earn lower revenues in such an environment. If JPMorgan Chase is unable to reduce positions effectively during a market dislocation, this can increase both the market and credit risks associated with those positions and the level of risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) that JPMorgan Chase holds on its balance sheet. These factors could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s capital position, funding costs and the profitability of its businesses. Liquidity Liquidity is critical to JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate its businesses. JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity could be impaired at any given time by factors such as: • market-wide illiquidity or disruption • unforeseen liquidity or capital requirements, including as a result of changes in laws, rules and regulations • inability to sell assets, or to sell assets at favorable times or prices • default by a CCP or other significant market participant • unanticipated outflows of cash or collateral • unexpected loss of consumer deposits caused by changes in consumer behavior, and • lack of market or customer confidence in JPMorgan Chase or financial institutions in general. A reduction in JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity may be caused by events over which it has little or no control. For example, during periods of market stress, low investor confidence and significant market illiquidity could result in higher funding costs for JPMorgan Chase and could limit its access to some of its traditional sources of liquidity. There is no assurance that severe conditions of this type will not occur. JPMorgan Chase may need to raise funding from alternative sources if its access to stable and lower-cost sources of funding, such as deposits and borrowings from Federal Home Loan Banks, is reduced. Alternative sources of funding could be more expensive or limited in availability. JPMorgan Chase’s funding costs could also be negatively affected by actions that JPMorgan Chase may take in order to: • satisfy applicable liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio requirements • address obligations under its resolution plan, or • satisfy regulatory requirements in jurisdictions outside the U.S. relating to the pre-positioning of liquidity in subsidiaries that are material legal entities. More generally, if JPMorgan Chase fails to effectively manage its liquidity, this could constrain its ability to fund or invest in its businesses and subsidiaries (including, in particular, its broker-dealer subsidiaries), and thereby adversely affect its results of operations. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a holding company and depends on the cash flows of its subsidiaries to make payments on its outstanding securities. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a holding company that holds the stock of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and an intermediate holding company, JPMorgan Chase Holdings LLC (the “IHC”). The IHC in turn holds the stock of substantially all of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries other than JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries. The IHC also owns other assets and owes intercompany indebtedness to the holding company. The holding company is obligated to contribute to the IHC substantially all the net proceeds received from securities issuances (including issuances of senior and subordinated debt securities and of preferred and common stock). The ability of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the IHC to make payments to the holding company is also limited. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is subject to restrictions on its dividend distributions, as well as capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and other regulatory restrictions on its ability to make payments to the holding company. The IHC is prohibited from paying dividends or extending credit to the holding company if certain capital or liquidity “thresholds” are breached or if limits are otherwise imposed by JPMorgan Chase’s management or Board of Directors. As a result of these arrangements, the ability of the holding company to make various payments is dependent on its receiving dividends from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and dividends and extensions of credit from the IHC. These limitations could affect the holding company’s ability to: • pay interest on its debt securities • pay dividends on its equity securities • redeem or repurchase outstanding securities, and 14 • fulfill its other payment obligations. These regulatory restrictions and limitations could also result in the holding company seeking protection under bankruptcy laws at a time earlier than would have been the case absent the existence of the capital and liquidity thresholds to which the IHC is subject. Reductions in JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings may adversely affect its liquidity and cost of funding. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain of its principal subsidiaries are rated by credit rating agencies. Rating agencies evaluate both general and firm-specific and industry-specific factors when determining credit ratings for a particular financial institution, including: • expected future profitability • risk management practices • legal expenses • ratings differentials between bank holding companies and their bank and non-bank subsidiaries • regulatory developments • assumptions about government support, and • economic and geopolitical trends. JPMorgan Chase closely monitors and manages, to the extent that it is able, factors that could influence its credit ratings. However, there is no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. Furthermore, any such downgrade could occur at times of broader market instability when JPMorgan Chase’s options for responding to events may be more limited and general investor confidence is low. A reduction in JPMorgan Chase’s credit ratings could curtail JPMorgan Chase’s business activities and reduce its profitability in a number of ways, including: • reducing its access to capital markets • materially increasing its cost of issuing and servicing securities • triggering additional collateral or funding requirements, and • decreasing the number of investors and counterparties that are willing or permitted to do business with or lend to JPMorgan Chase. Any rating reduction could also increase the credit spreads charged by the market for taking credit risk on JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries. This could, in turn, adversely affect the value of debt and other obligations of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its subsidiaries. The reform and replacement of benchmark rates could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s funding, investments and financial products, and expose it to litigation and other disputes. Interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be “benchmarks,” including those in widespread and long-standing use, have been the subject of ongoing international, national and other regulatory scrutiny and initiatives and proposals for reform. Some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented or are under consideration. These reforms may cause benchmarks to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be fully anticipated. Any of the benchmark reforms which have been proposed or implemented, or the general increased regulatory scrutiny of benchmarks, could also increase the costs and risks of administering or otherwise participating in the setting of benchmarks and complying with regulations or requirements relating to benchmarks. Such factors may have the effect of discouraging market participants from continuing to administer or contribute to certain benchmarks, trigger changes in the rules or methodologies used in certain benchmarks or lead to the disappearance of certain benchmarks. Any of these developments, and any future initiatives to regulate, reform or change the administration of benchmarks, could result in adverse consequences to the return on, value of and market for loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments whose returns are linked to any such benchmark, including those issued, funded, serviced or held by JPMorgan Chase. Various regulators, industry bodies and other market participants in the U.S. and other countries are engaged in initiatives to develop, introduce and encourage the use of alternative rates to replace certain benchmarks. There is no assurance that these new rates will be accepted or widely used by market participants, or that the characteristics of any of these new rates will be similar to, or produce the economic equivalent of, the benchmarks that they seek to replace. If a particular benchmark were to be discontinued and an alternative rate has not been successfully introduced to replace that benchmark, this could result in widespread dislocation in the financial markets, engender volatility in the pricing of securities, derivatives and other instruments, and suppress capital markets activities, all of which could have adverse effects on JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations. In addition, to the extent that appropriate relief is not provided by accounting standard setters with respect to the transition from benchmark rates, the transition could: • affect hedge accounting relationships between financial instruments linked to a particular benchmark and any related derivatives, which could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations, or • increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational costs with respect to the determination of whether the transition 15 Part I has resulted in the modification or extinguishment of specific contracts for accounting purposes. Representatives of the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”), have made a series of public statements during the past several years to the effect that: • the FCA will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the LIBOR benchmark after 2021, and • once a significant number of banks are no longer submitting such rates, the FCA may make a determination under applicable regulations that the LIBOR benchmark may not meet the standards required under those regulations for use as a benchmark. These statements indicate that it is highly likely that LIBOR will be discontinued on or about the end of 2021. Vast amounts of loans, mortgages, securities, derivatives and other financial instruments are linked to the LIBOR benchmark, and any inability of market participants and regulators to successfully introduce benchmark rates to replace LIBOR and implement effective transitional arrangements to address the discontinuation of LIBOR could result in disruption in the financial markets and suppress capital markets activities, all of which could have a negative impact on JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations and on LIBOR-linked securities, credit or other instruments which are issued, funded, serviced or held by JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase could also become involved in litigation and other types of disputes with clients, customers, counterparties and investors as a consequence of the transition from LIBOR and other benchmark rates to replacement rates, including claims that JPMorgan Chase has: • treated clients, customers, counterparties or investors unfairly, or caused them to experience losses, higher financing costs or lower returns on investments • failed to appropriately communicate the effects of the transition from benchmark rates on the products that JPMorgan Chase has sold to its clients and customers, or failed to disclose purported conflicts of interest • made inappropriate product recommendations to or investments on behalf of its clients, or sold products that did not serve their intended purpose, in connection with the transition from benchmark rates • engaged in anti-competitive behavior, or in the manipulation of markets or specific benchmarks, in connection with the discontinuation of or transition from benchmark rates, or • disadvantaged clients, customers, counterparties or investors when interpreting or making determinations under the terms of agreements or financial instruments. These types of claims could subject JPMorgan Chase to higher legal expenses and operational costs, require it to pay significant amounts in connection with resolving litigation and other disputes, and harm its reputation. Capital Maintaining the appropriate level and composition of capital is critical to support JPMorgan Chase’s business activities, meet regulatory requirements and distribute capital to shareholders. JPMorgan Chase is subject to various regulatory capital requirements, and although many of these requirements have been finalized, prudential regulators have recently issued new regulatory capital proposals, and continued uncertainty remains as to the manner in which these requirements ultimately will apply to JPMorgan Chase. As a result, it is possible that these requirements could limit JPMorgan Chase’s ability to support its businesses and make capital distributions to its shareholders. JPMorgan Chase is required to submit, on an annual basis, a capital plan describing proposed dividend payments to shareholders, redemptions and repurchases of its outstanding securities and other capital actions that it intends to take. JPMorgan Chase considers various factors in the management of capital, including the impact of stress on its capital levels, as determined by both internal modeling and the Federal Reserve’s modeling of JPMorgan Chase’s capital position in supervisory stress tests and CCAR. Because the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase use different forecasting models and methodologies when determining stress test results, there can be significant differences between the estimates of stress loss as determined by the Federal Reserve and JPMorgan Chase, respectively. The Federal Reserve may object to or require modifications to JPMorgan Chase’s capital plan, or JPMorgan Chase may otherwise modify its capital plan, and any such modification could have an adverse effect on JPMorgan Chase’s shareholders, including by: • constraining the amount of dividends that may be paid on common stock • reducing the amount of common stock that JPMorgan Chase is permitted to repurchase • requiring the issuance of, or prohibiting the redemption of, capital instruments in a manner inconsistent with JPMorgan Chase’s capital management strategy • curtailing JPMorgan Chase’s business activities or operations, or • damaging JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. 16 Operational JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are highly dependent on the effectiveness of its operational systems and those of other market participants. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses rely comprehensively on the ability of JPMorgan Chase’s financial, accounting, transaction execution, data processing and other operational systems to process, record, monitor and report a large number of transactions on a continuous basis, and to do so accurately, quickly and securely. In addition to proper design, installation, maintenance and training, the effective functioning of JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems depends on: • the quality of the information contained in those systems, as inaccurate, outdated or corrupted data can significantly compromise the functionality or reliability of a particular system and other systems to which it transmits or from which it receives information, and • JPMorgan Chase’s ability to appropriately maintain and upgrade its systems on a regular basis, and to ensure that any changes introduced to its systems are managed carefully to ensure security and operational continuity and adhere to all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. JPMorgan Chase also depends on its ability to access and use the operational systems of its vendors, custodians and other market participants, including clearing and payment systems, CCPs, securities exchanges and data processing, security and technology companies. The ineffectiveness, failure or other disruption of operational systems upon which JPMorgan Chase depends, including due to a systems malfunction, cyberbreach or other systems failure, could result in unfavorable ripple effects in the financial markets and for JPMorgan Chase and its clients and customers, including: • delays or other disruptions in providing information, services and liquidity to clients and customers • the inability to settle transactions or obtain access to funds and other assets, including those for which physical settlement and delivery is required • failure to timely settle or confirm transactions • the possibility that funds transfers, capital markets trades or other transactions are executed erroneously, illegally or with unintended consequences • financial losses, including due to loss-sharing requirements of CCPs, payment systems or other market infrastructures, or as possible restitution to clients and customers • higher operational costs associated with replacing services provided by a system that is unavailable • client or customer dissatisfaction with JPMorgan Chase’s products and services • loss of confidence in the ability of JPMorgan Chase, or financial institutions generally, to protect against and withstand operational disruptions, or • harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. As the speed, frequency, volume, interconnectivity and complexity of transactions continue to increase, it becomes more challenging to effectively maintain and upgrade JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems and infrastructure, especially due to the heightened risks that: • errors made by JPMorgan Chase or another market participant, whether inadvertent or malicious, cause widespread system disruption • isolated or seemingly insignificant errors in operational systems compound, or migrate to other systems over time, to become larger issues • failures in synchronization or encryption software, or degraded performance of microprocessors due to design flaws, could cause disruptions in operational systems, or the inability of systems to communicate with each other, and • third parties may attempt to block the use of key technology solutions by claiming that the use infringes on their intellectual property rights. If JPMorgan Chase’s operational systems, or those of external parties on which JPMorgan Chase’s businesses depend, are unable to meet the demanding standards of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and operations, or if they fail or have other significant shortcomings, JPMorgan Chase could be materially and adversely affected. JPMorgan Chase can be negatively affected if it fails to identify and address operational risks associated with the introduction of or changes to products, services and delivery platforms. When JPMorgan Chase launches a new product or service, introduces a new platform for the delivery or distribution of products or services (including mobile connectivity, electronic trading and cloud computing), or makes changes to an existing product, service or delivery platform, it may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from those changes, or may fail to implement adequate controls to mitigate the risks associated with those changes. Any significant failure in this regard could diminish JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate one or more of its businesses or result in: • potential liability to clients, counterparties and customers • increased operating expenses • higher litigation costs, including regulatory fines, penalties and other sanctions • damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation • impairment of JPMorgan Chase’s liquidity 17 Part I • regulatory intervention, or • weaker competitive standing. Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and results of operations. JPMorgan Chase’s connections to external operational systems expose it to greater operational risks. External operational systems with which JPMorgan is connected, whether directly or indirectly, can be sources of operational risk to JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase may be exposed not only to a systems failure that may be experienced by a vendor or market infrastructure with which JPMorgan Chase is directly connected, but also to a systems breakdown of another party to which such a vendor or infrastructure is connected. Similarly, retailers, data aggregators and other external parties with which JPMorgan Chase’s customers do business can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational risk. This is particularly the case where activities of customers or those parties are beyond JPMorgan Chase’s security and control systems, including through the use of the internet, cloud computing services and personal smart phones and other mobile devices or services. If an external party obtains access to customer account data on JPMorgan Chase’s systems, and that party experiences a cyberbreach of its own systems or misappropriates that data, this could result in a variety of negative outcomes for JPMorgan Chase and its clients and customers, including: • heightened risk that external parties will be able to execute fraudulent transactions using JPMorgan Chase’s systems • losses from fraudulent transactions, as well as potential liability for losses that exceed thresholds established in consumer protection laws and regulations • increased operational costs to remediate the consequences of the external party’s security breach, and • harm to reputation arising from the perception that JPMorgan Chase’s systems may not be secure. As JPMorgan Chase’s interconnectivity with clients, customers and other external parties expands, JPMorgan Chase increasingly faces the risk of operational failure with respect to the systems of those parties. Security breaches affecting JPMorgan Chase’s clients or customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or human error or misconduct affecting other external parties, may require JPMorgan Chase to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information, including restricting the access of customers to their accounts. These actions can increase JPMorgan Chase’s operational costs and potentially diminish customer satisfaction and confidence in JPMorgan Chase. Furthermore, the widespread and expanding interconnectivity among financial institutions, central agents, CCPs, payment processors, securities exchanges, clearing houses and other financial market infrastructures increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity may cause an industry-wide operational failure that could materially affect JPMorgan Chase’s ability to conduct business. JPMorgan Chase’s operations depend on the competence and integrity of its employees and those of external parties. JPMorgan Chase’s ability to operate its businesses efficiently and profitably, to offer products and services that meet the expectations of its clients and customers, and to maintain an effective risk management framework is highly dependent on the competence and integrity of its employees, as well as employees of other parties on which JPMorgan Chase’s operations rely, including vendors, custodians and financial markets infrastructures. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses could be materially and adversely affected by: • the ineffective implementation of business decisions • any failure to institute controls that appropriately address risks associated with business activities, or to appropriately train employees with respect to those risks and controls • a significant operational breakdown or failure, theft, fraud or other unlawful conduct, or • other negative outcomes caused by human error or misconduct by an employee of JPMorgan Chase or of another party on which JPMorgan Chase’s operations depend. JPMorgan Chase faces substantial legal and operational risks in safeguarding personal information. JPMorgan Chase’s businesses are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations, both within and outside the U.S., governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals. The protected parties can include: • JPMorgan Chase’s clients and customers, and prospective clients and customers • clients and customers of JPMorgan Chase’s clients and customers • employees and prospective employees, and • employees of JPMorgan Chase’s vendors, counterparties and other external parties. Ensuring that JPMorgan Chase’s collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information comply with all applicable laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions, including where the laws of different jurisdictions are in conflict, can: • increase JPMorgan Chase’s compliance and operating costs 18 • hinder the development of new products or services, curtail the offering of existing products or services, or affect how products and services are offered to clients and customers • demand significant oversight by JPMorgan Chase’s management, and • require JPMorgan Chase to structure its businesses, operations and systems in less efficient ways. Furthermore, JPMorgan Chase cannot ensure that all of its clients and customers, vendors, counterparties and other external parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information exchanged between them and JPMorgan Chase, particularly where information is transmitted by electronic means. JPMorgan Chase could be exposed to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions if personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients, customers, employees or others were to be mishandled or misused, such as situations where such information is: • erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, or • intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties. Concerns regarding the effectiveness of JPMorgan Chase’s measures to safeguard personal information, or even the perception that those measures are inadequate, could cause JPMorgan Chase to lose existing or potential clients and customers, and thereby reduce JPMorgan Chase’s revenues. Furthermore, any failure or perceived failure by JPMorgan Chase to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject it to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices, significant liabilities or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions. Any of these could damage JPMorgan Chase’s reputation and otherwise adversely affect its businesses. In recent years, well-publicized allegations involving the misuse or inappropriate sharing of personal information have led to expanded governmental scrutiny of practices relating to the safeguarding of personal information and the use or sharing of personal data by companies in the U.S. and other countries. That scrutiny has in some cases resulted in, and could in the future lead to, the adoption of stricter laws and regulations relating to the use and sharing of personal information. These types of laws and regulations could prohibit or significantly restrict financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase from sharing information among affiliates or with third parties such as vendors, and thereby increase compliance costs, or could restrict JPMorgan Chase’s use of personal data when developing or offering products or services to customers. These restrictions could also inhibit JPMorgan Chase’s development or marketing of certain products or services, or increase the costs of offering them to customers. A successful cyberattack against JPMorgan Chase could cause significant harm to JPMorgan Chase or its clients and customers. JPMorgan Chase experiences numerous cyberattacks on its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets on a daily basis from various actors, including cyber-criminals and “hacktivists” (i.e., individuals or groups that use technology to promote a political agenda or social change). These cyberattacks can take many forms, but a common objective of many of these attacks is to introduce computer viruses or malware into JPMorgan Chase’s systems. These viruses or malicious code are typically designed to: • obtain unauthorized access to confidential information belonging to JPMorgan Chase or its clients, customers, counterparties or employees • manipulate or destroy data • disrupt, sabotage or degrade service on JPMorgan Chase’s systems, or • steal money. JPMorgan Chase has also experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks which are intended to disrupt online banking services. JPMorgan Chase devotes significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade its systems to protect them against cyberattacks. However, JPMorgan Chase has experienced security breaches due to cyberattacks in the past, and it is inevitable that additional breaches will occur in the future. Any such breach could result in serious and harmful consequences for JPMorgan Chase or its clients and customers. A principal reason that JPMorgan Chase cannot provide absolute security against cyberattacks is that it may not always be possible to anticipate, detect or recognize threats to JPMorgan Chase’s systems, or to implement effective preventive measures against all breaches. This is because: • the techniques used in cyberattacks change frequently and are increasingly sophisticated, and therefore may not be recognized until launched • cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties who are or may be involved in organized crime or linked to terrorist organizations or hostile countries, or whose objective is to disrupt the operations of financial institutions more generally • JPMorgan Chase does not have control over the cybersecurity of the systems of the large number of clients, customers, counterparties and third-party service providers with which it does business • third parties may seek to gain access to JPMorgan Chase’s systems either directly or using equipment or security passwords belonging to employees, customers, 19 Part I third-party service providers or other users of JPMorgan Chase’s systems, and • it is possible that a third party, after establishing a foothold on an internal network without being detected, might obtain access to other networks and systems. The risk of a security breach due to a cyberattack could increase in the future as JPMorgan Chase continues to expand its mobile banking and other internet-based product offerings and its internal use of internet-based products and applications. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of JPMorgan Chase’s systems or the systems of a vendor, governmental body or another market participant could cause serious negative consequences, including: • significant disruption of JPMorgan Chase’s operations and those of its clients, customers and counterparties, including losing access to operational systems • misappropriation of confidential information of JPMorgan Chase or that of its clients, customers, counterparties, employees or regulators • damage to computers or systems of JPMorgan Chase and those of its clients, customers and counterparties • inability to fully recover and restore data that has been stolen, manipulated or destroyed, or to prevent systems from processing fraudulent transactions • violations by JPMorgan Chase of applicable privacy and other laws • financial loss to JPMorgan Chase or to its clients, customers, counterparties or employees • loss of confidence in JPMorgan Chase’s cybersecurity measures • dissatisfaction among JPMorgan Chase’s clients, customers or counterparties • significant exposure to litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and • harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. JPMorgan Chase could also suffer some of the above consequences if a third party were to misappropriate confidential information obtained by intercepting signals or communications from mobile devices used by JPMorgan Chase’s employees. The extent of a particular cyberattack and the steps that JPMorgan Chase may need to take to investigate the attack may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such an investigation can be completed. While such an investigation is ongoing, JPMorgan Chase may not necessarily know the full extent of the harm caused by the cyberattack, and that damage may continue to spread. These factors may inhibit JPMorgan Chase’s ability to provide full and reliable information about the cyberattack to its clients, customers, counterparties and regulators, as well as the public. Furthermore, it may not be clear how best to contain and remediate the harm caused by the cyberattack, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated. Any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cyberattack. JPMorgan Chase’s operations, results and reputation could be harmed by catastrophes or other events. JPMorgan Chase’s business and operational systems could be seriously disrupted, and its reputation could be harmed, by events or contributing factors that are wholly or partially beyond its control, including: • cyberbreaches or breaches of physical premises, including data centers • power, telecommunications or internet outages • failures of, or loss of access to, operational systems, including computer systems, servers, networks and other technology assets • damage to or loss of property or assets of JPMorgan Chase or third parties, and any consequent injuries, including in connection with any construction projects undertaken by JPMorgan Chase • effects of climate change • natural disasters or severe weather conditions • accidents such as explosions or structural failures • health emergencies, the spread of infectious diseases or pandemics, or • events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. JPMorgan Chase maintains a firmwide resiliency program that is intended to enable it to recover critical business functions and supporting assets, including staff, technology and facilities, in the event of a business interruption. There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s resiliency plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to JPMorgan Chase or its clients and customers. In particular, JPMorgan Chase’s ability to respond effectively to a business interruption could be hampered to the extent that the members of its workforce, physical assets or systems and other support infrastructure needed to address the event are geographically dispersed, or conversely, if a catastrophic event occurs in an area in which a critical segment of JPMorgan Chase’s workforce, physical assets or systems and other support infrastructure is concentrated. In addition, should emergency or catastrophic events such as severe or abnormal weather conditions become more chronic, the disruptive effects of those events on JPMorgan Chase’s business and operations, and on its clients, customers, counterparties and employees, could become more significant and long-lasting. 20 Any significant failure or disruption of JPMorgan Chase’s operations or operational systems, or any catastrophic event, could: • hinder JPMorgan Chase’s ability to provide services to its clients and customers or to transact with its counterparties • require it to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption • cause it to incur losses or liabilities, including from loss of revenue, damage to or loss of property, or injuries • expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and • harm its reputation. JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework may not be effective in identifying and mitigating every risk to JPMorgan Chase. Any inadequacy or lapse in JPMorgan Chase’s risk management framework, governance structure, practices, models or reporting systems could expose it to unexpected losses, and its financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any such inadequacy or lapse could: • require significant resources to remediate • attract heightened regulatory scrutiny • expose JPMorgan Chase to regulatory investigations or legal proceedings • subject it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions • harm its reputation, or • otherwise diminish confidence in JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase relies on data to assess its various risk exposures. Any deficiencies in the quality or effectiveness of JPMorgan Chase’s data gathering and validation processes could result in ineffective risk management practices. These deficiencies could also result in inaccurate risk reporting. Many of JPMorgan Chase’s risk management strategies and techniques consider historical market behavior. These strategies and techniques are based to some degree on management’s subjective judgment. For example, many models used by JPMorgan Chase are based on assumptions regarding historical correlations among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In times of market stress, including difficult or less liquid market environments, or in the event of other unforeseen circumstances, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated. Conversely, previously-correlated indicators may make unrelated movements at those times. Sudden market movements and unanticipated or unidentified market or economic movements could, in some circumstances, limit the effectiveness of JPMorgan Chase’s risk management strategies, causing it to incur losses. JPMorgan Chase could incur significant losses, its capital levels could be reduced and it could face greater regulatory scrutiny if its models or estimations prove to be inadequate. JPMorgan Chase has developed and uses a variety of models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations to measure, monitor and implement controls over its market, credit, liquidity, operational and other risks. These models and estimations are based on a variety of assumptions and historical trends, and are periodically reviewed and modified as necessary. The models and estimations that JPMorgan Chase uses may not be effective in all cases to identify, observe and mitigate risk due to a variety of factors, such as: • reliance on historical trends that may not accurately predict future events, including assumptions underlying the models and estimations which predict correlation among certain market indicators or asset prices • inherent limitations associated with forecasting uncertain economic and financial outcomes • historical trend information may be incomplete, or may not anticipate severely negative market conditions such as extreme volatility, dislocation or lack of liquidity • technology that is introduced to run models or estimations may not perform as expected, or may not be well understood by the personnel using the technology • models and estimations may contain erroneous data, valuations, formulas or algorithms, and • review processes may fail to detect flaws in models and estimations. Some of the models and other analytical and judgment-based estimations used by JPMorgan Chase in managing risks are subject to review by, and require the approval of, JPMorgan Chase’s regulators. These reviews are required before JPMorgan Chase may use those models and estimations in connection with calculating market risk RWA, credit risk RWA and operational risk RWA under Basel III. If JPMorgan Chase’s models or estimations are not approved by its regulators, it may be subject to higher capital charges, which could adversely affect its financial results or limit the ability to expand its businesses. JPMorgan Chase’s capital actions could also be constrained if a CCAR submission is not approved by its banking regulators due to the perceived inadequacy of its models or estimations. Enhanced regulatory and other standards for the oversight of vendors and other service providers can result in higher costs and other potential exposures. JPMorgan Chase must comply with enhanced regulatory and other standards associated with doing business with vendors and other service providers, including standards relating to the outsourcing of functions as well as the performance of significant banking and other functions by subsidiaries. JPMorgan Chase incurs significant costs and 21 Part I expenses in connection with its initiatives to address the risks associated with oversight of its internal and external service providers. JPMorgan Chase’s failure to appropriately assess and manage these relationships, especially those involving significant banking functions, shared services or other critical activities, could materially adversely affect JPMorgan Chase. Specifically, any such failure could result in: • potential liability to clients and customers • regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions • lower revenues, and the opportunity cost from lost revenues • increased operational costs, or • harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. JPMorgan Chase could incur unexpected losses if estimates and judgments underlying its financial statements are incorrect. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”), JPMorgan Chase is required to use estimates and apply judgments in preparing its financial statements, including in determining the allowance for credit losses and reserves related to litigation. Certain financial instruments require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements, including: • trading assets and liabilities • instruments in the investment portfolio • certain loans • MSRs • structured notes, and • certain repurchase and resale agreements. Where quoted market prices are not available for these types of financial instruments, JPMorgan Chase may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management estimates and judgment, and these types of estimates and judgments may not prove to be accurate due to a variety of factors, as noted above. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain financial instruments, which could lead to valuations being subsequently changed or adjusted. If estimates or judgments underlying JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements prove to have been incorrect, JPMorgan Chase may experience material losses. JPMorgan Chase establishes an allowance for expected credit losses that are inherent in its credit exposures. It then employs stress testing and other techniques to determine the amounts of capital and liquidity that would be needed in the event of adverse economic or market events. These processes are critical to JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations and financial condition. They require difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of how economic conditions might impair the ability of JPMorgan Chase’s borrowers and counterparties to repay their loans or other obligations. It is possible that JPMorgan Chase will fail to identify the proper factors or that it will fail to accurately estimate the impact of factors that it identifies. Lapses in controls over disclosure or financial reporting could materially affect JPMorgan Chase’s profitability or reputation. There can be no assurance that JPMorgan Chase’s disclosure controls and procedures will be effective in every circumstance, or that a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal control over financial reporting will not occur. Any such lapses or deficiencies could: • materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business and results of operations or financial condition • restrict its ability to access the capital markets • require it to expend significant resources to correct the lapses or deficiencies • expose it to litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions • harm its reputation, or • otherwise diminish investor confidence in JPMorgan Chase. JPMorgan Chase could be adversely affected by changes in accounting standards or policies. The preparation of JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements is based on accounting standards established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as more detailed accounting policies established by JPMorgan Chase’s management. From time to time these accounting standards or accounting policies may change, and in some cases these changes could have a significant effect on JPMorgan Chase’s financial statements and may adversely affect its financial results or investor perceptions of those results. As of January 1, 2020, JPMorgan Chase has implemented a new accounting standard, commonly referred to as the Current Expected Credit Losses (“CECL”) framework, which requires earlier recognition of expected credit losses on loans and certain other instruments. The allowance for credit losses related to JPMorgan Chase’s loans and other lending-related commitments increased as a result of the implementation of CECL, which has a negative impact on JPMorgan Chase’s capital levels. The ongoing impact of the adoption of CECL could include the following, each of which could result in diminished investor confidence: • greater volatility in JPMorgan Chase’s earnings and capital levels over economic cycles 22 • potential reductions in its capital distributions, or • unexpected increases in the allowance for credit losses. In addition, JPMorgan Chase could be adversely impacted by associated changes in the competitive environment in which it operates, including changes in the availability or pricing of loan products, particularly during periods of economic stress, as well as changes related to non-U.S. financial institutions or other competitors that are not subject to this accounting standard. Strategic If JPMorgan Chase’s management fails to develop and execute effective business strategies, and to anticipate changes affecting those strategies, JPMorgan Chase’s competitive standing and results could suffer. JPMorgan Chase’s business strategies significantly affect its competitive standing and operations. These strategies relate to: • the products and services that JPMorgan Chase offers • the geographies in which it operates • the types of clients and customers that it serves • the counterparties with which it does business, and • the methods and distribution channels by which it offers products and services. If management makes choices about these strategies and goals that prove to be incorrect, do not accurately assess the competitive landscape and industry trends, or fail to address changing regulatory and market environments, then the franchise values and growth prospects of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses may suffer and its earnings could decline. JPMorgan Chase’s growth prospects also depend on management’s ability to develop and execute effective business plans to address these strategic priorities, both in the near term and over longer time horizons. Management’s effectiveness in this regard will affect JPMorgan Chase’s ability to develop and enhance its resources, control expenses and return capital to shareholders. Each of these objectives could be adversely affected by any failure on the part of management to: • devise effective business plans and strategies • offer products and services that meet changing expectations of clients and customers • allocate capital in a manner that promotes long-term stability to enable JPMorgan Chase to build and invest in market-leading businesses, even in a highly stressed environment • allocate capital appropriately due to imprecise modeling or subjective judgments made in connection with those allocations • appropriately address shareholder concerns • react quickly to changes in market conditions or market structures, or • develop and enhance the operational, technology, risk, financial and managerial resources necessary to grow and manage JPMorgan Chase’s businesses. Additionally, JPMorgan Chase’s Board of Directors plays an important role in exercising appropriate oversight of management’s significant strategic decisions, and a failure by the Board to perform this function could also impair JPMorgan Chase’s results of operations. JPMorgan Chase faces significant and increasing competition in the rapidly evolving financial services industry. JPMorgan Chase operates in a highly competitive environment in which it must evolve and adapt to the significant changes as a result of financial regulatory reform, technological advances, increased public scrutiny and current economic conditions. JPMorgan Chase expects that competition in the U.S. and global financial services industry will continue to be intense. Competitors include: • other banks and financial institutions • trading, advisory and investment management firms • finance companies and technology companies, and • other nonbank firms that are engaged in providing similar products and services. JPMorgan Chase cannot provide assurance that the significant competition in the financial services industry will not materially and adversely affect its future results of operations. New competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge. For example, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products. These advances have also allowed financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading, payments processing and online automated algorithmic-based investment advice. Furthermore, both financial institutions and their non-banking competitors face the risk that payments processing and other services could be significantly disrupted by technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, that require no intermediation. New technologies have required and could require JPMorgan Chase to spend more to modify or adapt its products to attract and retain clients and customers or to match products and services offered by its competitors, including technology companies. In addition, new technologies may be used by customers, or breached or infiltrated by third parties, in unexpected ways, which can increase JPMorgan Chase’s costs for complying with laws and regulations that apply to the offering of products and services through those technologies and reduce the income 23 Part I that JPMorgan Chase earns from providing products and services through those new technologies. Ongoing or increased competition may put pressure on the pricing for JPMorgan Chase’s products and services or may cause JPMorgan Chase to lose market share, particularly with respect to traditional banking products such as deposits and bank accounts. This competition may be on the basis of quality and variety of products and services offered, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. The failure of any of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses to meet the expectations of clients and customers, whether due to general market conditions, under-performance, a decision not to offer a particular product or service, changes in client and customer expectations or other factors, could affect JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract or retain clients and customers. Any such impact could, in turn, reduce JPMorgan Chase’s revenues. Increased competition also may require JPMorgan Chase to make additional capital investments in its businesses, or to extend more of its capital on behalf of its clients in order to remain competitive. Climate change could have a material adverse impact on JPMorgan Chase’s business operations, clients and customers. JPMorgan Chase operates in many regions, countries and communities around the world where its businesses, and the activities of its clients and customers, could be disrupted by climate change. Potential physical risks from climate change may include: • altered distribution and intensity of rainfall • prolonged droughts or flooding • increased frequency of wildfires • rising sea levels • rising heat index In addition, these physical changes may prompt changes in regulations or consumer preferences which in turn could have negative consequences for the business models of JPMorgan Chase’s clients. These climate driven changes could have a material adverse impact on asset values and the financial performance of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses, and those of its clients and customers. Conduct Conduct failure by JPMorgan Chase employees can harm clients and customers, impact market integrity, damage JPMorgan Chase’s reputation and trigger litigation and regulatory action. JPMorgan Chase’s employees interact with clients, customers and counterparties, and with each other, every day. All employees are expected to demonstrate values and exhibit the behaviors that are an integral part of JPMorgan Chase’s How We Do Business Principles, including JPMorgan Chase’s commitment to “do first class business in a first class way.” JPMorgan Chase endeavors to embed conduct risk management throughout an employee’s life cycle, including recruiting, onboarding, training and development, and performance management. Conduct risk management is also an integral component of JPMorgan Chase’s promotion and compensation processes. Notwithstanding these expectations, policies and practices, certain employees have in the past engaged in improper or illegal conduct, and these instances of misconduct have resulted in litigation as well as resolutions of governmental investigations or enforcement actions involving consent orders, deferred prosecution agreements, non-prosecution agreements and other civil or criminal sanctions. There is no assurance that further inappropriate or unlawful actions by employees will not occur or that any such actions will always be detected, deterred or prevented. JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could be harmed, and collateral consequences could result, from a failure by one or more employees to act consistently with JPMorgan Chase’s expectations, policies and practices, including by acting in ways that harm clients, customers, other market participants or other employees. Some examples of this include: • improperly selling and marketing JPMorgan Chase’s products or services • engaging in insider trading, market manipulation or unauthorized trading • facilitating illegal or aggressive tax-motivated transactions, or transactions designed to circumvent economic sanction programs • failing to fulfill fiduciary obligations or other duties owed to clients or customers • violating anti-trust or anti-competition laws by colluding with other market participants to manipulate markets, prices or indices • engaging in discriminatory behavior or harassment • making risk decisions in ways that subordinate JPMorgan Chase’s risk appetite to employee compensation objectives, and • misappropriating property, confidential or proprietary information, or technology assets belonging to JPMorgan Chase, its clients and customers or third parties. The consequences of any failure by employees to act consistently with JPMorgan Chase’s expectations, policies or practices could include litigation, or regulatory or other governmental investigations or enforcement actions. Any of these proceedings or actions could result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, or lead to: • financial losses • increased operational and compliance costs 24 • greater scrutiny by regulators and other parties • regulatory actions that require JPMorgan Chase to restructure, curtail or cease certain of its activities • the need for significant oversight by JPMorgan Chase’s management • loss of clients or customers, and • harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. Reputation Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could harm its businesses. Maintaining trust in JPMorgan Chase is critical to its ability to attract and retain clients, customers, investors and employees. Damage to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation can therefore cause significant harm to JPMorgan Chase’s business and prospects. Harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation can arise from numerous sources, including: • employee misconduct, including discriminatory behavior or harassment • security breaches, including cyberattacks • failure to safeguard client, customer or employee information • failure to manage environmental, social and sustainability risk issues associated with its business activities or those of its clients • compliance or operational failures • litigation or regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions • regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, or resolutions of these matters, and • failure or perceived failure of clients, customers, counterparties or other parties to comply with laws or regulations, including companies in which JPMorgan Chase has made principal investments, parties to joint ventures with JPMorgan Chase, and vendors with which JPMorgan Chase does business. JPMorgan Chase’s reputation may be significantly damaged by adverse publicity or negative information regarding JPMorgan Chase, whether or not true, that may be published or broadcast by the media or posted on social media, non-mainstream news services or other parts of the internet. This latter risk can be magnified by the speed and pervasiveness with which information is disseminated through those channels. Social and environmental activists are increasingly targeting financial services firms such as JPMorgan Chase with public criticism for their relationships with clients that are engaged in certain sensitive industries, including businesses whose products are or are perceived to be harmful to human health, or whose activities negatively affect or are perceived to negatively affect the environment, workers’ rights or communities. Activists have also engaged in public protests at JPMorgan Chase’s headquarters and other properties. Activist criticism of JPMorgan Chase’s relationships with clients in sensitive industries could potentially engender dissatisfaction among clients, customers, investors and employees with how JPMorgan Chase addresses social and environmental concerns in its business activities. Alternatively, yielding to activism targeted at certain sensitive industries could damage JPMorgan Chase’s relationships with clients and customers, and with governmental bodies in jurisdictions in which JPMorgan Chase does business, whose views are not aligned with those of social and environmental activists. In either case, the resulting harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation could: • cause certain clients and customers to cease doing business with JPMorgan Chase • impair JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract new clients and customers, or to expand its relationships with existing clients and customers • diminish JPMorgan Chase’s ability to hire or retain employees, or • prompt JPMorgan Chase to cease doing business with certain clients or customers. Actions by the financial services industry generally or individuals in the industry can also affect JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. For example, concerns that consumers have been treated unfairly by a financial institution, or that a financial institution has acted inappropriately with respect to the methods used to offer products to customers, can damage the reputation of the industry as a whole. If JPMorgan Chase is perceived to have engaged in these types of behaviors, this could weaken its reputation among clients or customers. Failure to effectively manage potential conflicts of interest can result in litigation and enforcement actions, as well as damage JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. JPMorgan Chase’s ability to manage potential conflicts of interest is highly complex due to the broad range of its business activities which encompass a variety of transactions, obligations and interests with and among JPMorgan Chase’s clients and customers. JPMorgan Chase can become subject to litigation and enforcement actions, and its reputation can be damaged, by the failure or perceived failure to: • adequately address or appropriately disclose conflicts of interest, including potential conflicts of interest that may arise in connection with providing multiple products and services in the same transaction • deliver appropriate standards of service and quality • treat clients and customers with the appropriate standard of care 25 Part I • use client and customer data responsibly and in a manner that meets legal requirements and regulatory expectations • provide fiduciary products or services in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory standards, or • handle or use confidential information of customers or clients appropriately or in compliance with applicable data protection and privacy laws and regulations. In the future, a failure or perceived failure to appropriately address conflicts of interest or fiduciary obligations could result in customer dissatisfaction, litigation and regulatory fines, penalties or other sanctions, and heightened regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions, all of which can lead to lost revenue and higher operating costs and cause serious harm to JPMorgan Chase’s reputation. Country An outbreak of hostilities between countries or within a country or region could have a material adverse effect on the global economy and on JPMorgan Chase’s businesses within the affected region or globally. Aggressive actions by hostile governments or groups, including armed conflict or intensified cyberattacks, could expand in unpredictable ways by drawing in other countries or escalating into full-scale war with potentially catastrophic consequences, particularly if one or more of the combatants possess nuclear weapons. Depending on the scope of the conflict, the hostilities could result in: • worldwide economic disruption • heightened volatility in financial markets • severe declines in asset values, accompanied by widespread sell-offs of investments • substantial depreciation of local currencies, potentially leading to defaults by borrowers and counterparties in the affected region • disruption of global trade, and • diminished consumer, business and investor confidence. Any of the above consequences could have significant negative effects on JPMorgan Chase’s operations and earnings, both in the countries or regions directly affected by the hostilities or globally. Further, if the U.S. were to become directly involved in such a conflict, this could lead to a curtailment of any operations that JPMorgan Chase may have in the affected countries or region, as well as in any nation that is aligned against the U.S. in the hostilities. JPMorgan Chase could also experience more numerous and aggressive cyberattacks launched by or under the sponsorship of one or more of the adversaries in such a conflict. JPMorgan Chase’s business activities with governmental entities can pose an enhanced risk of loss. Several of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses engage in transactions with, or trade in obligations of, governmental entities, including national, state, provincial, municipal and local authorities, both within and outside the U.S. These activities can expose JPMorgan Chase to enhanced sovereign, credit-related, operational and reputation risks, as governmental entities have in the past, and may in the future, taken actions such as: • defaulting on or restructuring their obligations • claiming that actions taken by government officials were beyond the legal authority of those officials, or • repudiating transactions authorized by a previous incumbent government. Any or all of these actions could adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s financial condition and results of operations and could hurt its reputation, particularly if JPMorgan Chase pursues claims against a government obligor in a jurisdiction in which it has significant business relationships with clients or customers. JPMorgan Chase’s business and revenues in emerging markets can be hampered by local economic, political, regulatory and social factors. Some of the countries in which JPMorgan Chase conducts business have economies or markets that are less developed and more volatile, and may have legal and regulatory regimes that are less established or predictable, than the U.S. and other developed markets in which JPMorgan Chase operates. Some of these countries have in the past experienced severe economic disruptions, including: • extreme currency fluctuations • high inflation • low or negative growth, and • defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt. The governments in these countries have sometimes reacted to these developments by imposing restrictive policies that adversely affect the local and regional business environment, including: • price, capital or exchange controls, including imposition of punitive transfer and convertibility restrictions • expropriation or nationalization of assets or confiscation of property, including intellectual property, and • changes in laws and regulations. The impact of these actions could be accentuated in trading markets that are smaller, less liquid and more volatile than more-developed markets. These types of government actions can negatively affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations 26 in the relevant country, either directly or by suppressing the business activities of local clients or multi-national clients that conduct business in the jurisdiction. For example, some or all of these governmental actions can result in funds belonging to JPMorgan Chase, or that it places with a local custodian on behalf of a client, being effectively trapped in a country. In addition to the ultimate risk of losing the funds entirely, JPMorgan Chase could be exposed for an extended period of time to the credit risk of a local custodian that is now operating in a deteriorating domestic economy. In addition, emerging markets countries, as well as certain more developed countries, have been susceptible to unfavorable social developments arising from poor economic conditions and related governmental actions, as well as natural disasters, including: • social unrest • general strikes and demonstrations • crime and corruption • security and personal safety issues • outbreaks of hostilities • overthrow of incumbent governments • terrorist attacks, and • other forms of internal discord. These economic, political, regulatory and social developments have in the past resulted in, and in the future could lead to, conditions that can adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations in those countries and impair the revenues, growth and profitability of those operations. In addition, any of these events or circumstances in one country can affect JPMorgan Chase’s operations and investments in another country or countries, including in the U.S. People JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to its success. JPMorgan Chase’s employees are its most important resource, and in many areas of the financial services industry, competition for qualified personnel is intense. JPMorgan Chase endeavors to attract talented and diverse new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. If JPMorgan Chase were unable to continue to attract or retain qualified employees, including successors to the Chief Executive Officer or members of the Operating Committee, JPMorgan Chase’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially and adversely affected. Unfavorable changes in immigration policies could adversely affect the quality of JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and operations. JPMorgan Chase relies on the skills, knowledge and expertise of employees located throughout the world. Changes in immigration policies in the U.S. and other countries that unduly restrict or otherwise make it more difficult for employees or their family members to work in, or transfer among, jurisdictions in which JPMorgan Chase has operations or conducts its business could inhibit JPMorgan Chase’s ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and thereby dilute the quality of its workforce, or could prompt JPMorgan Chase to make structural changes to its worldwide operating model that are less efficient or more costly. Legal JPMorgan Chase faces significant legal risks from private actions and formal and informal regulatory and government investigations. JPMorgan Chase is named as a defendant or is otherwise involved in many legal proceedings, including class actions and other litigation or disputes with third parties. Actions currently pending against JPMorgan Chase may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions adverse to JPMorgan Chase. Any of these matters could materially and adversely affect JPMorgan Chase’s business, financial condition or results of operations, or cause serious reputational harm. As a participant in the financial services industry, it is likely that JPMorgan Chase will continue to experience a high level of litigation and regulatory and government investigations related to its businesses and operations. Regulators and other government agencies conduct examinations of JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries both on a routine basis and in targeted exams, and JPMorgan Chase’s businesses and operations are subject to heightened regulatory oversight. This heightened regulatory scrutiny, or the results of such an investigation or examination, may lead to additional regulatory investigations or enforcement actions. There is no assurance that those actions will not result in resolutions or other enforcement actions against JPMorgan Chase. Furthermore, a single event involving a potential violation of law or regulation may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal, state or local agencies and officials in the U.S. or, in some instances, regulators and other governmental officials in non-U.S. jurisdictions. If another financial institution violates a law or regulation relating to a particular business activity or practice, this will often give rise to an investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the same or similar activity or practice by JPMorgan Chase. 27 Part I These and other initiatives by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental authorities may subject JPMorgan Chase to judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other sanctions, and may require JPMorgan Chase to restructure its operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services. All of these potential outcomes could harm JPMorgan Chase’s reputation or lead to higher operational costs, thereby reducing JPMorgan Chase’s profitability, or result in collateral consequences. In addition, the extent of JPMorgan Chase’s exposure to legal and regulatory matters can be unpredictable and could, in some cases, exceed the amount of reserves that JPMorgan Chase has established for those matters.